---
layout: page
title: "Google"
subtitle: "Provision Mobile App with Google Cloud Messaging (GCM)"
category: provisioning
date: 2015-05-14 12:00:00
order: 1
---
Follow the steps below to provision your Andoid mobile app with Google:

> Complete these steps to ensure you can receive push messages in your app. After completing these steps, test your configuration using the information in [this document]({{ site.baseurl }}/trouble-shooting/trouble-shooting-push-setup.html).

Review the Android documentation regarding the integration of your Android mobile app with Google Cloud Messaging found in <a href="https://developers.google.com/cloud-messaging/gcm" target="_blank">Google Cloud Messaging (GCM) HTTP connection server.</a> You must obtain a Sender ID and an API Key for use with MobilePush and your mobile app.

1. Log into the <a href="https://console.developers.google.com/" target="_blank">Google Developers Console</a> and click **Select a Project**.
2. Click **Create a Project...**.
 * Enter a name for your project in the **PROJECT NAME** field.
 * Enter an ID for your project in the **PROJECT ID** field or use the suggested default.
 * Click **Create**.<br/>
 <br/>
1. Record the Project ID (also known as the Sender ID) value supplied by the Google Cloud Console. You will use this value later in your Android application code as the **Google Cloud Messaging Sender ID**.<br/>
<br/>
1. Click **APIs & auth** and select **APIs**.<br/>
<br/>
1. Click **Google Cloud Messaging For Android** to enable **Google Cloud Messaging for Android** .<br/>
<br/>
1. Ensure the switch shows an **Enabled** value.<br/>
<br/>
1. Click **Credentials** in the provided menu.<br/>
<br/>
1. Click **Create New Key** under the **Public API Access** section and select **Server Key**.<br/>
<br/>
> Leaving this entry blank will simplify development, but this step does not secure your project.  When you verify that you correctly set up your app, restrict access by providing individual server IP addresses, or at least restrict the range to your known address ranges.<br/>
<br/>
1. Click **Create** and copy the **API KEY** value from the **Server application**.<br/>
<br/>
1. Use the API Key from the server application created above to add to your MobilePush app in the [Add Provisioning to App Center App]({{ site.baseurl }}/create-apps/create-apps-provisioning.html) step.  And use the GCM key in ETPush.readyAimFire() as described in [Implement the SDK for Google]({{ site.baseurl }}/sdk-implementation/implement-sdk-google.html).