---
layout: page
title: "EventBus"
subtitle: "Notification of SDK Actions through the EventBus"
category: features
date: 2015-05-14 12:00:00
order: 11
---
In the Android SDK, the EventBus provides notifications of events occuring inside the SDK. By setting up your app to register for EventBus callbacks, you can receive error notifications or take custom actions.

You can use the following Events when you want to be notified within your Android application when the event occurs within the Journey Builder for Apps Android SDK:

* AnalyticItemEvent – This event posts to the EventBus when sending analytic items to the Salesforce Marketing Cloud.
* BackgroundEvent - This event posts to the EventBus when the application goes into the background for 2 seconds  or when the application has come back into the foreground. You must use ETAnalytics to post this event.
* CloudPagesChangedEvent - This event posts to the EventBus when the application receives new CloudPage Inbox messages from the server. 
* GeofenceResponseEvent - Sent after the app receives geofence and message data to start monitoring from the Salesforce Marketing Cloud for the current users location.
* LastKnownLocationEvent – This event posts whenever the Salesforce Marketing Cloud receives a new location from Android. 
* LocationStatusEvent - This event is posted to the EventBus when the status of location watching changes.
* LocationUpdateEvent - Sent after the current users location successfullt sends to the Salesforce Marketing Cloud.
* PowerStatusChangedEvent - Sent whenever the device goes to battery_low status or returns to battery_ok status. 
* PushReceivedEvent - Sent after receiving or processing a push or geofence message.
* PushStatusEvent - This event is posted to the EventBus when the status of pushEnabled changes.
* ReadyAimFireInitCompletedEvent - Sent once all required processing has occurred within readyAimFire()
* RegistrationEvent - Sent whenever a user registers or unregisters for push notifications with the Salesforce Marketing Cloud.
* ServerErrorEvent - Sent whenever an error occurs on the ExactTarget server (usually a data-related issue with sent information).

Any Application, Activity, or Fragment class can register for EventBus callbacks. This section reviews code examples of listening for RegistrationEvent and ServerErrorEvent.

1.  In the onCreate() method for your Application, Activity, or Fragment class, add code to register for the EventBus.

    ~~~
    @Override
      public void onCreate(Bundle savedInstanceState) {
        super.onCreate(savedInstanceState);
        …
        EventBus.getInstance().register(this);
    }
    ~~~    
1.  In the onDestroy() method, add code to unregister for the EventBus. Use this code for Activities and Fragments to prevent the EventBus from calling disposed classes and to allow for proper garbage collection. You can omit this code if listening for an Application class because this class does not use an onDestroy() callback.

    ~~~
    @Override
    protected void onDestroy() {
        super.onDestroy();
        EventBus.getInstance().unregister(this);
    } 
    ~~~
1.  Implement the Listener interface required methods. These examples methods will show how to receive a callback whenever a RegistrationEvent or ServerErrorEvent occurs. Mark these parameters as final to ensure the callback method does not modify the parameters.

    ~~~
    public void onEvent(final RegistrationEvent event) {
        if (ETPush.getLogLevel() <= Log.DEBUG) {
            Log.i(TAG, "Marketing Cloud update occurred.  You could now save Marketing Cloud details in your own data stores...");
            Log.i(TAG, "Device ID:" + event.getDeviceId());
            Log.i(TAG, "System Token:" + event.getSystemToken());
            Log.i(TAG, "Subscriber key:" + event.getSubscriberKey());

            for (Attribute attribute : (ArrayList<Attribute>) event.getAttributes()) {
                Log.i(TAG, "Attribute " + attribute.getKey() + ": [" + attribute.getValue() + "]");
            }
            Log.i(TAG, "Tags: " + event.getTags());
            Log.i(TAG, "Language: " + event.getLocale());
        }
    }
    
    @Override
    public void onEvent(final ServerErrorEvent serverErrorEvent) {
        Crashlytics.log(Log.ERROR, TAG, "ServerErrorEvent: "+ serverErrorEvent.getMessage());
    }
    ~~~